
show example of webpage: what are somethings you will change and why that particular principle is used?
interpreting (what are the users needs) vs ( business needs), most don't align
what is the business goal
UX Components
￮ Field research
￮ Face to face interviewing
￮ Creation of user tests
￮ Gathering and organizing statistics
￮ Creating personas
￮ Product design
￮ Interactive design
￮ Visual design
￮ Feature writing
￮ Requirement writing
￮ Graphic arts
￮ Taxonomy creation
￮ Terminology creation
￮ Copywriting
￮ Presenting and speaking
￮ Working closely with programmers
￮ Brainstorm coordination
￮ Design culture evangelism


User Experience (UX)
 Encompasses all aspects of the end-user's interaction with the company, its services, and its products.
 Refers to a person's emotions and attitudes about using a particular product, system or service. 
It includes the practical, experiential, affective, meaningful and valuable aspects of human–computer 
interaction and product ownership. 

Usability
 The extent to which a product can be used by specified users to achieve specified goals in a specified 
context of use, with these consideration (ISO 9241-11)
1. Effectiveness - able to complete task
2. Efficiency - optimal workflow
3. Satisfaction - Easy to learn, meet expectation

Goals of Usability
1. Effectiveness
￮ It refers to the accuracy and completeness with which specified users can achieve specified goals in particular environments
2. Efficiency
￮ It refers to the resources (i.e. time, effort, etc) used in relation to the accuracy and completeness of goals achieved
3. Satisfaction
￮ It is the comfort and acceptability of the work system to it users and other people affected by its use.

Other Goals of Usability
4. Learnability
￮ How easy is it for users to accomplish basic task the first time they encounter the design?
5. Memorability
￮ When users return to the design after a period of not using it, how easily can they re-establish proficiency?
6. Error Prevention
￮ How many errors do users make, how severe are these errors,
and how easily can they recover from the errors?

Usability versus UX
 Usability
 Can a task be completed effectively, efficiently and satisfactorily?
 User Experience (UX)
 Is the user delighted after completing a task?

User Experience Design
(UXD)
 The creation and synchronization of the elements that
affect users’ experience with a particular company, with
the intent of influencing their perceptions and behaviour
 Touch
 Hear
 Smell
 People
 Digital interfaces

Interaction Design
 Interaction design is about designing interactive
products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday and working lives

Scope of UX is growing
 Growing social media influence
 Facebook
 Twitter
 Reviews and social influencers can affect the experience of using a product or service
 Availability of big data provides the start and means to improve user experience
 Fast changing technology such as Virtual Reality are pushing UX in different areas

Key to a good UX design
 Users are the centre of it all
 Understand the needs of the users
 Clear business objective
 Clear project goals
 Challenges: each project will have limited resources (budget, time, staff) and
a balance between the business objective with user needs must
be met via a feasible and clear project goal

UX Designer | Developer
| Analyst | Researcher
 In some projects and companies, the task of
formulating the UX design and implementation lies
solely on a one-person team
 With such as large scope of areas and UX
components to handle, it is hard to imagine a single
person completing all the relevant work
 Very often, various roles are directly or indirectly
involved

 Researcher
 Information architect
 Engineer
 Designer
 Writer
 Projectmanager
 Users

Common Mistakes in User Research
 Asking the wrong people for feedback
 Leading the user – asking leading questions
 Applying the wrong research method

Basic steps in user research
 Define your primary user group
 Describe the main type of users you are designing for, in
order to focus efforts in recruiting users for research
 Plan for user involvement
 Choose one or more techniques for involving user groups
in research, based on the needs of project
 Conduct the research
 Basic techniques include interviews, surveys and focus groups

Defining the primary user group
 Create an initial definition
 Based on knowledge of stakeholders
 Create a list of attributes based on sources available:
 Documents explaining company strategies, goals, competitive information,
marketing strategies and business plans
 Market segmentation of current customers and other demographic data
gathered by the marketing department
 Previously conducted user research
 Surveys
 Customer service reports
 Get perspective from different people

Defining the primary user group
1. Primary goal
2. Roles
3. Demographics
4. Experience
5. Organisational attributes
Prioritize the attributes to decide which of the listed attributes have
the greatest influence/impact on user’s goal and behaviour

User Interview
 It is a valuable method for kicking off exploratory research that allow
you to focus on the problems that user raise during the course of conversation
 Advantage:
 Allows you to explore general attitudes, look deeper into
motivators and drivers, and explore workflows
 Disadvantage:
 Humans are usually bad at self-reporting, and when
challenged, often make up stuff on the spot

Contextual Inquiry
 An unstructured interview that occurs in the context in which your product or
service will be used. Observe how the user work and question them when you
need to clarify details
 Advantage:
 It is often used to uncover unmet needs or hidden desires; It is also a
good way to discover how people think and talk about a given topic
 Disadvantages:
 Required a huge amount of time spent at the context of use
 You can only see what’s happening during the session

Contextual Inquiry
 Clarify what is the most important context of use for your project
 Consider how many interviews per day you can undertake when travel is
involved to conduct these sessions
 Treat people with respect and avoid passing judgement on the way users
perform tasks
 It’s fine to be curious and probe for more information.
 Learn to think on your feet and follow the natural flow of the situation
 Allow user to go off on a tangent; it can provide the best insights into users’
private worlds

Focus Groups
 Good technique for several purposes:
 Hear variety of stories
 Getting opinions and preference
 Understanding relevant differences in experiences
 Generating ideas
 Understanding multiple points of a collaborative process
 However, in focus groups,
 What people say do not necessary translate into actual behaviour!
 Uncover the truth using Usability Testing
 Verify design or solution via observation of users

Card Sorting
 In card sorting activity, participants working either individually or in
small groups are given items printed on cards and are asked to
put them into groups that make sense to them.
 Either they group them into categories that are provided
beforehand (called a closed sort) or they make their own groups
and title each group themselves (called an open sort)
 At the end of the round of card sorting, you should be able to see
common patterns emerge in how people are sorting the items, as
well as common areas of confusion or disagreement

Combining Methods for Best Effect
 Use at least two or three methods
 Review the results obtained across methods and observe themes, overlaps, or contradictions
 Determine the strongest insights from each method, resulting in a far richer understanding of your users

Affinity Mapping
It allows you to:
 synthesise large amounts of data by finding relationships between ideas
 get an insight of the problem during the process of creating
relationships with the detailed information
 group, review, and transform the findings as you continue analysing the data
 refine the information and remove noise

Modelling the User
 Persona: user models
 Based on research
 Represented as individual people but represent groups of users
 Must have motivations/goals
 Can also represent non-users (negative persona)
A Design Tool“Will my persona use this feature?”

Personas
The purpose of personas is to create reliable and realistic
representations of your key audience segments for reference.
Effective personas:
 Represent a major user group for your website
 Express and focus on the major needs and expectations of the most important user groups
 Give a clear picture of the user's expectations and how they're likely to use the site
 Aid in uncovering universal features and functionality
 Describe real people with backgrounds, goals, and values

Different Mapping Methods
Helps to capture, organise and visualise findings/insights from user research
 Empathy Mapping – tool to articulate what we know about a
particular type of user. It helps to create a shared
understanding and also aids in decision making.
 Customer Journey Mapping – focuses on a specific customer’s interaction with 
a product or service, and typically includes his experience.
 Others: experience mapping, service blueprinting

Task Analysis
It analyses what a user is required to do in terms of actions and/or cognitive
processes to achieve a task
 What your users’ goals are; what they are trying to achieve
 What users actually do to achieve those goals
 What experiences (personal, social, and cultural) users bring to the tasks
 How users are influenced by their physical environment
 How users’ previous knowledge and experience influence:
 How they think about their work
 The workflow they follow to perform their tasks

Goals
• Goals are what people want to accomplish and
form the motivation for visiting a (shop) website
• Technology independent
Tasks
• Tasks are the mechanism people use to accomplish
goals
• High-level descriptions
Actions
• Actions are sub-components of tasks
• Individual steps that compose a task

Business intention and goal
 Sell a product
 Provide a service
 Generate leads
 Demonstrate capability
 Establish credentials

//////
Meeting users needs
/////



Users have higher expectation and less tolerance for issues because
there are generally a lot of easily available alternatives
Meeting the users needs and business goals, using available design
techniques and technology IS the expected norm

--Gender
 Male
 Want proof
 Desire visual which displays individual’s ambitions and future
 Make purchases for current needs
 Female
 Prefer neat and clean design
 Looking for connections
 Drawn in by stories and content
 Images of women (reminded of herself)
 Looking for value now and over time
 Like to share with others

--Age
 Elderly
 Require larger font size (at least 12 point)
 Increase size and white space around links and buttons
 More obvious, easier to click
 Uncomfortable with changes
 Helped by more detailed instructions
 Example: Enter name of cardholder, as printed on a card
 Young
 Map-style navigation help young kids
 List-style navigation is better for older kids

--Culture
 Different cultures have shown to respond differently to similar web characteristics
 Power distance
 Individualistic versus Collectivist societies
 Uncertainty avoidance
 Long-versus short term orientation
 Masculinity versus Femininity
 A culture like China scores very highly on Masculinity and Power Distance but very
low on Individuality and Long Term Orientation. What this means is that Chinese
web users may respond to:
 Photography of groups of people not individuals
 Prefer male subjects rather than females
 May be less inclined to look for a long term relationship with a brand
 Consequently less likely to become a registered user and is happy to cede authority
to the web owner (e.g. by being trusting and perhaps less conscious of security)

--image
Poor quality images reduce trust
Stock photos
 Staged look can reduce credibility too.
 May look beautiful but ineffective
Real and relevant images improve conversions
 Real images over stock photos
 Improve conversions by 161%
Stretched image
 Design did not handle different display width
80% of viewing time above fold
 Eye fixation times aggregated across 400+ different web pages
 Stripes indicate fold on 1024 x 768 monitor
 People do scroll, just that top fold gets more attention

Principle of Least Effort
 User will choose the least demanding course of action
 Effort is required for
 Attention
 Interaction
 Reading
 Thinking

Short Term Memory
 Information is passed from the sensory memory into short-term
memory via the process of attention (the cognitive process of
selectively concentrating on one aspect of the environment while
ignoring other things)
 If information are flashing by, there is increased cognitive processing
required by the user

Selective Attention
 Focus in one area means less attention elsewhere
 Visual perception can be incomplete and inaccurate
 Motivations changes our perceptions
 See what we wish to see

 Have predictable interface
 Forgiving to error and misinterpretation
 Keep options to only the necessary

The Halo effect
 One trait of the design is used to make overall judgement of the design
 For example
 a beautifully designed website will tend to receive
favourable judgment and higher tolerance to anomalies
 A site will poor internal search results can draw the bias that the site is poorly done

Business Need A:

Encourage self-service during delivery (support benefit)
Orders can be tracked by entering a tracking code online

Business Need B: 

Show innovation in efficient delivery (competitive benefit)
Users can track their package by GPS locations of delivery trucks or airplanes

Business Need C: 
Encourage reordering and self-service (sales and support benefit)
Users can view all past orders made in the last 365 days

User Need X: 
Be able to reschedule delivery
Users can submit an online request form to reschedule a delivery

User Need Y: 
Be able to monitor status of delivery
Users can view the status of their delivery on the "Orders" page. 

User Need Z: 
Be able to retrieve past orders 
Users can view all past orders made in the last 365 days

Realize that for each need, there can be a variety of ideas and solutions.
Resources are limited and must be targeted at the more important needs.
Selecting and developing ideas into solution should consider the priority of various needs.

//////
prototype
//////
Analog (paper, whiteboard) 
Digital (PowerPoint, Visio, HTML, prototyping tools)
The outcome of a prototyping process is actionable feedback.
Prototypes help to convey the ideas or concept to the relevant stakeholders and users. 
Getting actionable feedback allow the ideas or concept to be improved. 


Low fidelity prototype
–
Just a rough sketch - not close to final product. Incomplete but with characteristics of the final product.
require less development time
usually static
created for discussion, or even documentation
prepared to be thrown away


High fidelity prototype
–
simulate final product or system
can be interactive
usually time-consuming to develop
may give wrong impression that project is almost complete


Horizontal prototype
–
Focus on top level functionality only. 
For confirming scope of system and user interface.
Help develop estimate of development cost, time and effort.
Example: A prototype customer management system with only navigational links to the overview page, 
customer management form (with limited user interactions) and analytics pages, without linking to any database.


Vertical prototype
–
Focus on functionalities to one set of activities.

For refining database design
Obtain information on data volumes, system needs
Investigate complex scenarios by implementing actual system functionality
Example: A prototype form on a customer management system that allows the retrieval, editing, saving, 
and deleting of records from the company database.


Evolutionary prototype
–
Evolves gradually into the final product based on users’ inputs


Revolutionary prototype
–
Throwaway: for the purpose of getting specifications right, then discarded.


Wireframe
Blueprint of a website or mobile application

For clients to visualize concepts
For developers to have a clear, interactive and visual direction
For users to do usability testing
Depicts page layout- Focus on what the site or application does, not what it looks like
Early sample, model, approximation or release of a system or product build for the purpose of testing, 
learning and improving ideas or concepts.


Pen and Paper
The use of pen and paper to visualize and communicate digital interface is very common.
Single-page wireframes with simple details of titles, and navigational menus may be sufficient for certain 
tasks within a usability test. 
More elaborate paper prototypes are also possible. Check out the videos below.

https://www.adobe.com/sg/products/xd/learn/get-started-xd-design.html

//////
Visual
//////

-Visual Hierarchy
 It reflects the importance of each area to the screen or page,
making it easier for users to find particular pieces of information.
 Pages with a clear visual hierarchy have 3 traits

Things are “nested” visually to show what’s part of what.
Things that are related logically are also related visually.
The more important something is, the more prominent it is.

-Gestalt Principles
--Proximity
 People tend to perceive items that are located close together as being related.
Design Tip: Group related content items close together. Separate unrelated items.

--Similarity
 If two things are the same shape, size,colour, or orientation, then viewers will
also associate them with each other.
Design Tip:
 Similar appearance equates to similar function.
 Contrast can draw attention to items on your page and reinforce the content
hierarchy by creating a visual hierarchy, i.e. text that is large and bold will be
perceived as being more important than smaller text

--Continuity (Alignment)
 Our eyes want to see continuous lines and curves formed by the alignment of smaller elements.

Design Tip: Align items (things positioned along a virtual or invisible
line) that are related or have equal importance.

Continuity: Visually align page elements, either vertically or horizontally


-Gutenberg Diagram
Design Tip:
 Place buttons and calls to action in bottom right instead of bottom left, as this is the
place where the visitor’s glance is likely to align.

Note: Gutenberg diagram is more likely to work on pages
which have more a balanced distribution of content. If
sections of your page have strong highlights through high
contrast and bold typography, then those areas would
likely attract more attention and so will direct the way a
user scans the page.

-Colours
 Able to invoke strong perception and emotion
 Consistently used to encourage trust or even feeling of hunger to increase
conversions or sales
 Perception differs for different culture

White  Clean, Innocence, Neutrality
Black  Authority, Power, Evil
Grey  Neutral, Practical
Red  Love, Energy, Warmth, Intensity
Orange  Enthusiasm, Energy, Change, Excitement
Yellow  Happiness, Optimism, Hunger, Cheery
Green  Natural, growth, money, harmony, calmness
Blue  Cold, Focused, Wisdom, Calmness
Purple  Royalty, Sophistication, Exotic, Spiritual, Mystery
Brown  Stable, Reliable, Organic, SecurityVarious colour schemes based on rules available
https://color.adobe.com/create/color-wheel/

Typography
 Typography is the art and technique of arranging type to make
written language legible, readable, and appealing when displayed.
 Font is a type in a particular size and weight
 Good choices can enhance the purpose and intent of a design

Typography - Fonts
-Serif fonts - Letters and symbols with semi structural details or finishing flourishes at the 
ends of some strokes
 Times New Roman
 Constantia
-Sans serif fonts - Letters and symbols without the details or flourishes
 Arial
 Verdana

 The usage of sans serif is dominant in the current age of digital media
 Sans serif are found to be better suited for
 Low-resolution display
 New reader (such as children)
 The details from serif make the individual letters more distinctive and easier to be recognize.
 However, these are rendered as blurry shapes on low-resolution display
 Ensure contrast
 Dark text on light background is more comfortable for the eyes
than light text on dark background
 Pattern or background with image decreases readability

Whitespace
 The spacing between different elements on a page/design
 Adequate whitespace, or negative space, promotes the
perception that content are well organized
 Promotes perception of sophistication
 Promote focus on key content
 Increases readability
 Space doesn’t have to be white


//////
Principles of Interaction Design
//////

-Visibility
 Solving one visibility problem could cause another if it is not handled with care 
Problems arise also when we cannot “see” how to use a device
 Visible knobs, dials and buttons have been replaced by invisible ambiguous “active zones”

-Feedback
The information the system provides to a user indicated the status of their action
 Can be audible or visual
 Cursor icon changes is a sample of visual feedback.
 The click sound that we hear when we press down on a mouse button is a sample of audible

Time delays in application responses can cause wrong feedback. Create some 
strategy that will notify the user the current status of their action

Whenever direct manipulation is supported, the feedback should
exhibit real-world properties, such as momentum and friction.

-mapping
It is the relationship between a control, the thing it affects, and the
outcome that results when the controls is operated.
 Natural mapping is the strong association of the control to the resulting actions.

-affordance
It is a visual attribute of an object or control that gives the user clues as to
how the object or control can be used or operated.
 For example, we know that buttons are for pushing, knobs are for turning and switches are for flicking.

For a door that opens only one way, it should have:
Push plate on one side, Pull bar on the other

-Consistency
It means doing the same things the same way.
 It creates comfort among regular users.
 Programmers and designers must come to an
agreement on the “looks” before development.

--aesthetic Style and appearance is repeated to enhance recognition, communicates
membership and sets an emotional tone

--functional
Its meaning and action are consistent to improve learnability and understanding

1. Determine style and operation conventions as soon as the functional requirements are understood.
2. Create a Style Guide
3. Distribute the Style Guide to everyone on the development team and make sure they follow it!
4. Website designers and developers can take advantage of cascading style sheets to specify display elements.

-constraints
 It prevents invalid data from being entered and 
prevent invalid actions from being performed.
 Restrict the kind of interaction that can take place
 Reduce the chance of error
Can also work to focus user’s attention to needed task



/////
Navigation
/////


 Gives users something to hold on to
-It gives users handrails to hold on to- to make them feel grounded.
 Tells users what is here
-By making the hierarchy visible, it tell users what the site contains.
 Tells users how to use the site
-It tells users implicitly where to begin and what their options are.
 Gives users confidence in the people who built it
-Clear, well-thought-out navigation is one of the best opportunities a site has to create a good impression.

-Conventions
Putting navigation in a standard place lets users locate them quickly, with a minimum effort.
 Standardizing their appearance makes it easy to distinguish them from everything else.

-Persistent Navigation
 It describes the set of navigation elements that appear on every
page of a site.
 It provides a consistent look that gives users instant confirmation
that they are still in the same site.

--The Relationship between then organisation that is asking the questions
and the person who is answering

 Explain why you’re asking -Rewards
 The fewer questions, the better -Check whether org already holds the information
 Ask once only -Avoid requiring users to re-enter their details (after they encounter errors)

The Relationship between the organisation that is
asking the questions and the person who is answering


--The Conversation of the form comes from the questions that it asks, any other
instructions, and the way the form is arranged into topics

 Supporting user inputs -Smart defaults,Choosing the right controls
 Content Grouping -Helps to organise forms
 Progress indicators -Esp. when forms are long
Also, clearly communicate that submission is successful

The Conversation of the form comes from the questions that it 
asks, any other instructions, and the way the form is arranged into topics

--The Appearance of the form is the way that it looks: the arrangement of text,
input areas such as fields and graphics and the use of colours

 Help & Tips-Useful when asking for unfamiliar data
-Also helps prevent errors and Keep to minimal
 Be gentle with Errors
-Indicate where the errors are
-Meaningful error messages
-Provide clear resolution in as few steps as possible

 If typing the answer is more natural, then go for a type-in box
 If users are likely to make mistakes when typing, then opt for
something they can click
 If there are a lot of options, using a drop-down may be best. But first
consider if question can be redesigned.
 If users are able to select more than one option  checkboxes
 If the users need to see the options to understand the question, then
radio button or checkboxes require less effort

-Organise the form
-Progress Indicators
-Indicate where the errors are

https://www.reddit.com/r/webdev/comments/nm6wcl/18_cards_of_how_to_design_web_forms/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=ios_app&utm_name=iossmf



<here>
whats wrong with the error message or form
what is wrong,or what can apply principles
show example of webpage: what are somethings you will change and why that particular principle is used?
interpreting (what are the users needs) vs ( business needs), most don't align
what is the business goal
/////
Heuristic Evaluation
/////


A detailed evaluation of a system by interface design specialists to identify problems

Advantages
• Easy to do
• Relatively low cost
• Does not waste user’s time

Disadvantages
• Evaluators must possess interface design expertise
• Evaluators may not possess an adequate understanding of the tasks and user communities
• Difficult to:
• Identify system wide structural problems
• Uncover missing exits and interface elements
• Identify most important of all identified problems
• Does not provide systematic way to generate solutions to problems

A ‘heuristic’ is basically a measure
-The most commonly-used heuristics are relate to
 Navigation
 Help and support
 Workflow support
 Error handling
 Consistency
 Functionality
 Control
 Visual clarity
 Language

Jakob Nielsen’s Ten Usability Heuristics
1. Visibility of system status
-The system should always keep users informed about what is going on, through
appropriate feedback within reasonable time.

Progress message and indicator shows while the application loads
A feedback message is displayed when an action is performed

2. Match between system and the real world
The system should speak the users' language, with words, phrases and
concepts familiar to the user, rather than system-oriented terms.
Follow real-world conventions, making information appear in a
natural and logical order.

Organized as a library that contains your media library:
music, movies, shows, audiobooks.

The icons used are familiar to the users and follow the real-world conventions.

3. User control and freedom
Users often choose system functions by mistake and will need a clearly marked
"emergency exit" to leave the unwanted state without having to go through an
extended dialogue. Support undo and redo.

Search is easy to open, enter info, execute or cancel.
Clearly marks where the user is and where they 
can go by showing the selection in each menu

4. Consistency and standards
Users should not have to wonder whether different words, situations, or actions mean
the same thing. Follow platform conventions.
When Gmail was designed, they based the organizational folders on the same ones used
in client email applications:
Inbox, Drafts, Sent Mail.

Word, Excel, and PowerPoint all use the same style toolbar with the same primary menu
Home, Insert, Page Layout...
Consistency results in efficiency and perceived intuitiveness.

5. Error prevention
 Even better than good error messages is a careful design
which prevents a problem from occurring in the first place.
 Either eliminate error-prone conditions or check for them
and present users with a confirmation option before they commit to the action.

Disables the update button after it is clicked, so the person cannot
update the post twice by accident. Set constraint on calendar or ticket
fields can prevent user from selecting options that are not supported.

6. Recognition rather than recall
 Minimize the user's memory load by making objects, actions, and options
visible. The user should not have to remember information from one part of
the dialogue to another.
 Instructions for use of the system should 
be visible or easily retrievable whenever appropriate.

Let the user know if he/she has logged in. Provide visible cue on the number 
of items in the cart. The search result page retain the keywords user entered 
to help user remember and associate with the search result.

7. Flexibility and efficiency of use
 Accelerators 
-- unseen by the novice user 
-- may often speed up the interaction for the expert user such
that the system can cater to both inexperienced and experienced
users.
 Allow users to tailor frequent actions
List of keyboard shortcuts and accelerators

Provide hints to assist new users to perform search
efficiently. Enable experience users to perform advanced search.

8. Aesthetic and minimalist design
Dialogues should not contain information which is irrelevant or rarely needed. 
Every extra unit of information in a dialogue competes with the relevant units 
of information and diminishes their relative visibility.

9. Help users recognize, diagnose, and recover from errors
Error messages should be expressed in plain language (no codes), precisely 
indicate the problem, and constructively suggest a solution.

Provides immediate feedback with specific instructions
Uses a funny image and copy, but provides viable alternatives (article
listings and blog link) and a course of action (report it)

10. Help and documentation
Even though it is better if the system can be used without documentation, it may
be necessary to provide help and documentation. Any such information should be 
easy to search, focused on the user's task, list concrete steps to be carried 
out, and not be too large.

Help tips are displayed on hover, answering the most likely questions
about a field or instructions

Contextual help (this is an example of help in the ‘Collages’ module) tips in
Picnik are clear and easy to navigate

Guidelines:
1. Use 3 to 5 expert evaluators
2. Choose knowledgeable people
￮ Familiar with the project situation
￮ Possessing a long-term relationship with the organization
￮ Experienced

Preparing the session
1. Select evaluators
2. Prepare or assemble:
• Project Overview
• Checklist of heuristics
3. Provide briefing to evaluators to:
• Review the purpose of the evaluation session
• Preview the evaluation process
• Present the project overview and heuristics
• Answer any evaluator questions
• Provide any special evaluator training that may be necessary

Conducting the session
1. Have each evaluator review the system alone
2. The evaluator should:
 Establish own process or method of review
 Provide usage scenarios, if necessary
 Compare findings with usability principles list
 Identify any other relevant problems / issues
 Make at least two passes through the system
3. Detected problems should be related to the specific
heuristics they violate
4. Comments are recorded either:
 By evaluator
 By observer
 The observer may answer questions and provide hints
5. Restrict the length of the session to 2 hours

After the session
1. Hold a debriefing session including observers and design
team members where:
 Each evaluator presents problems detected and the heuristic it violated
 A composite problem listing is assembled
 Design suggestions for improving the problematic aspects of system are discussed
2. After the debriefing session:
 Generate a composite list of violations as a ratings form
 Request evaluators to assign severity ratings to each violation
 Analyse results and establish a program to correct violations and deficiencies

/////
Feedback and help
/////

When user does enters wrong data or does something
incorrectly, your system has to inform the user about it.
What is the purpose of a feedback message?
User must know What is wrong and How to correct it

-Poor Feedback Messages
 Ambiguous – no head no tail, confuse users
 Useless, irrelevant – Does not guide users what they have
done wrong and how to rectify the situation.
 Incorrect - Indicating error at line 5 when your error is at line 430
This happens because system developer fails to anticipate user’s needs and capabilities

-WRITE EFFECTIVE MESSAGES
 Consider the need for the message
 Be as specific and precise as possible
 Be constructive: Indicate what the user needs to do
 Use a positive tone: Avoid condemnation (e.g. words like ILLEGAL, ERROR, INVALID, OR BAD)
 Choose user-centered phrasing
 focus on actions that the user can do
 Use the appropriate title
 The title of the message box should be the name of the application that
produced the message. By doing so, when user is in multitasking, he will
instantly know which program caused the error.

-Consider the Need
Before you decide to interrupt the user and/or demand a response,
make sure you have done your part to prevent users from making
potential mistakes – prevention e.g..
 Number fields only accept numbers
 Provide lists wherever possible
 Provide default values wherever possible which user can override if necessary
 Use aided entry (input mask) e.g. Tel: (___) ____-____
 Allow review, change or undo before action is done, etc. e.g.
Are you sure you want to delete this?

-Specificity
 Messages that are too general make it difficult for the
novice to know what has gone wrong.

SYNTAX ERROR -Unmatched left parenthesis
ILLEGAL ENTRY -Disable the entry in the first place
INVALID DATA -Day ranges from 1 to 31
BAD FILE NAME -File names must begin with an alphabet

-Constructive guidance
 Provide a constructive correction message
 What problem was detected
 What items are in error
 What corrective action is necessary
 Phrase the message as a question that can be answered with a simple ‘Yes’ or ‘No’.

-How to provide help online
 General Online Help page/FAQ
 Context-sensitive/contextual help
 Provides help at a specific point in the state of the software for the situation
associated with that state(i.e. context). This means that it contains the smallest
possible chunk of information the user needs to understand at that point, and it
isn’t meant to be read as a whole as opposed to user manuals
 Embedded Help
 A type of context-sensitive help, that goes beyond basic information and
explanations by either detecting a user's need for help or offering a guided tour
right on the interface.
 Particularly useful for first-time users
 Online chat (AI or real humans)
 Guidelines: https://www.nngroup.com/articles/chat-ux/
