Start selling on Cornerguys, and I assure that you will not regret it. Hi, I am sven from cornerguys and
I have a proposal for a potential long-term partnership with you guys, to allow growth of the highest potential.
As the founder of cornerguys, all I ask is 3mins of your time to perhaps achieve endless results. 
Ever feel a need to bring your product to the next level? Research shows that online marketing, in general, 
can allow up to more than 30% growth. As such online marketing is the future.
Here is where we come into play. Introducing corner guys. We are a multi-social media platform that allows you to reach the next level of IT marketing.
Our mission is to bring the fitness community together in a fun and supportive way. We aim to do that through both physical and online interaction, 
we have a host of events, content, and advice for physical fitness. We have roughly 30million Singaporeans that view our site on a daily basis
Now, why would anyone want to use our service? 
Well, because it’s got everything you need. We coined it the search engine of fitness. This is how our platform looks like. 
We have a huge host of content ready at the finger tips 
Where to workout, what to workout with, and who to work out with, 
we got you covered. We have created a platform where all your potential needs can be addressed.
So why the name cornerguys? Well In a boxing match in a ring, when the competitor is taking a break, 
a cornerman will support the competitor to get ready for the next round. Just like a cornerman, cornerguys is like the backbone of fitness.
There are no downsides to allowing more people to know your product. 
We have good connections and ready professionals to collaborate with you every step of the way.  
We assure quality service and allow a wider reach in the audience than any other service provider. 
With your help, we can help you greatly improve sales and even bring your product worldwide.

I have a dream that one day we can all lead healthy lifestyles, to lead the best life that there is.

And through your help, we can make these dreams a reality.
There’s a quote that goes. “I walk to where I am going to be, not where I have been”. 
We will always be innovating for the better good. 
For contact details, you can message any social media sites as Cornerguys.
With that, I hope that you can consider a future partnership with cornerguys, thank you and have a nice day. 
